 V
North Korea is one of the most militarized countries in the world and remains a critical security challenge for the United States, our Northeast Asian allies, and the international community. The Kim regime has seen itself as free to take destabilizing actions to advance its political goals, including attacks on South Korea, development of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, proliferation of weapons, and cyberattacks against civilian infrastructure worldwide. Compounding this challenge, the closed nature of the regime makes gathering facts about North Korea's military extremely diffi  cult Just over twenty years ago, North Korea appeared to be on the brink of national collapse. Economic assistance from former patrons in the Soviet Union disappeared; society was confronted with the death in 1994 of regime founder Kim Il Sung—revered as a deity by his people—and a 3-year famine killed almost a million people. Many experts in academia and the Intelligence Community predicted that North Korea would never see the 21st century. Yet today, North Korea not only endures under a third-generation Kim family leader, it has become a growing menace to the United States and our allies in the region Kim Jong Un has pressed his nation down the path to develop nuclear weapons and combine them with ballistic missiles that can reach South Korea, Japan, and the United States. He has implemented a rapid, ambitious missile development and fl  ight-testing program to refi  ne these capabilities and improve their reliability. His vision of a North Korea that can directly hold the United States at risk, and thereby deter Washington and compel it into policy decisions benefi  cial to Pyongyang, is clear and is plainly articulated as a goal in authoritative North Korean rhetoric Equally dangerous, North Korea continues to maintain one of the world’s largest conventional militaries that directly threatens South Korea. The North can launch a high-intensity, short-duration attack on the South with thousands of artillery and rocket systems. This option could cause thousands of casualties and massive disruption to a regional economic hub. Kim Jong Un’s emphasis on improving military training and investment in new weapon systems highlights the overriding priority the regime puts on its military capabilities In 2018, at the historic fi  rst summit between Kim Jong Un and the President of the United States, North Korea pledged to work with the United States to accomplish what it described as “the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula”, and committed to other measures to reduce tensions and achieve “a lasting and stable peace regime.” In the following years, North Korea tested multiple new missiles that threaten South Korea and U.S. forces stationed there, displayed a new potentially more capable ICBM and new weapons for its conventional force. Additionally, there continues to be activity at North Korea’s nuclear sites.  These actions indicate that North Korea will continue to be a challenge for the United States in the coming years. This report, is a baseline examination of North Korea and its core military capabilities, and is intended to help us better understand the current threat Pyongyang poses to the United States and its allies.From North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un's Remarks at the 8th Workers’ Party
Congress, Released 9 January 2021
“Building the national nuclear force was a strategic and predominant goal. The status of our state as a nuclear weapons state…enabled it to bolster its powerful and reliable strategic deterrent for coping with any threat by providing a perfect nuclear shield. New, cutting edge weapons systems were [also] developed one after another … making our state’s superiority in military technology irreversible and putting its war deterrent and capability of fi  ghting war on the highest level. 1
Scott D  Berrier
Lieutenant General, U.S. Army
DirectorDefense Intelligence Agency